## Breast-Cancer-Classification
Breast Cancer has been characterized as a heterogeneous disease consisting of many different subtypes. The early diagnosis and prognosis of a breast cancer type have become a necessity in cancer research, as it can facilitate the subsequent clinical management of patients. The importance of classifying breast cancer patients into benign or malignant risk groups has led many research teams, from the biomedical and the bioinformatics field, to study the application of machine learning (ML) methods. The ML techniques have been utilized as an aim to model the classification and treatment of cancerous conditions. In addition, the ability of ML tools to detect key features from complex datasets reveals their importance. A variety of these techniques, including Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), Bayesian Networks (BNs), Support Vector Machines (SVMs) and Decision Trees (DTs) have been widely applied in cancer research for the development of predictive models, resulting in effective and accurate decision making. Even though it is evident that the use of ML methods can improve our understanding of cancer classification, an appropriate level of validation is needed in order for these methods to be considered in the everyday clinical practice. In this work, a comparative study of recent ML approaches employed in the classification of breast cancer is presented. The predictive models discussed here are based on various supervised ML techniques as well as on different input features and data samples.

Dataset

In this work, the Wisconsin Breast Cancer Dataset (WBCD) was obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. This is the same dataset used by Bennett to detect cancerous and noncancerous tumors. The features were extracted from digitized images of the fine needle aspirate of a breast mass that describes features of the nucleus of the current image . WBCD database has been effected on 569 patients in Wisconsin hospitals and identified 212 malignant and 357 benign cases. Each observation represents FNA test measurements. For this dataset, the first attribute corresponds to the diagnosis status. The remaining values are the thirty real attributes, including, the mean, the standard error, and the worst of ten cell nucleus features. These ten real values are measured, namely, the radius, texture, perimeter, area, smoothness, compactness, concave points, concavity, symmetry, and fractal dimension.

Conclusion

It revealed that classifier and kernel function selection are necessary to get the best results. The study suggests that Support Vector Machine Classifier (SVC) and CatBoost Classifier (CB) models and especially linear kernels may be further developed to be a potential practical methodology for clinical assistant breast cancer diagnosis by providing the physicians with the immediate second opinion. Such a CAD system can also help the inexperienced physicians to avoid misdiagnosis. Highest Accuracy, i.e., 98.25% was achieved with Catboost in [80% - 20%] Train test split and with SVM in [60% - 40%] with Train test split having lowest False Negative rate as 1.75%. Therefore, both can be used to detect breast cancer with very high accuracy.
